Current-Trends-in-Social-Computing
==================================

Gephi report
<p> The Gephi graph produced is taken from my personal Facebook of a selection of my friends. As it is taken from Facebook it is a multimodal network (reciprocal friendships). The graph displays nodes and edges. The nodes are the dots which represent people or pages and the edges are the connections between them. Edges show how many connections or relationships are present between the particular node and others in the graph. Edges can be directed or undirected. Directed edges show an arrow from the origin to the destination, whereas undirected edges have no arrows and are reciprocated between the nodes (e.g. Facebook friendships). </p>
<p>In this graph there are clearly 3 clusters. This is a result of running the modularity class under the statistics tab. Once the modularity has been found I went to the partition tab and refreshed the node option. This then showed me available colour setting for the clusters. I clicked apply and the colours were assigned to different groups. Red represents friends from secondary school, blue represents a group of friends from another secondary school, and green represents friends from a previous job. Using the In-Degree filter to change the size of the nodes in connection to who had the most connections proved that Beth Dakin and Oisin Hogan have the most connections. Beth has twelve edges linking her to others, while Oisin has ten. Anna Keary is the node from the red cluster with the most connections to the blue cluster. </p>
<p> Carl Gaffnee and Conor Bishop (both from the green cluster) have several edges connecting them to the red and blue clusters respectively. This shows that they are both very important for a bridging aspect. Bridging is what connects one cluster to another, linking the two subsets of people or pages. Since both of these nodes have connections both within their cluster and to other clusters they represent the best example of bridging. There are many more connections within the red cluster than within the other clusters. Firstly, there are more nodes in the red cluster, but also there are more friendships within this cluster, and also more friendships with people from other clusters. </p>
<p> I then went to the filter tab in Gephi and went under attributes and range to find Eigenvector Centrality. I dragged this down to the filter box and changed the range to find the person who would be considered the most popular or as having the most influence among all those in the graph. This led me to Beth Dakin, who has important connections with Oisin Hogan, Anna Keary and Emma Frost who were the last to remain once I made the range smaller. Under the filter tab you can also filter the nodes in order to display those who have connections while living in different/the same areas or you can use filters to either display the different sexes in different colours or filter one sex out completely. </p>
<p>Gephi is an excellent visualisation tool for networks and data clusters. After familiarising yourself with all of the tools Gephi has to offer, you can really use this software for any data visualisation of a network you wish to produce. With all of the tools included in the software you can create several graphs of the same network, or any you wish, for any number of reasons with any number of different attributes. It is a really interesting software to use. </p>
